rename & restructure Imports page (#1947)
withastro/docs: src/pages/en/guides/imports.md

- CSS Modules (`.module.css`)
- Images & Assets (`.svg`, `.jpg`, `.png`, etc.)

Additionally, you can extend Astro to add support for different [UI Frameworks](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/) like React, Svelte and Vue components. You can also install the [Astro MDX integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/mdx/) and use `.mdx` files in your project.

### Files in `public/`

You can place any static asset in the [`public/` directory](/en/core-concepts/project-structure/#public) of your project, and Astro will copy it directly into your final build untouched. `public/` files are not built or bundled by Astro, which means that any type of file is supported. You can reference a `public/` file by a URL path directly in your HTML templates.

> ## ESM import statements

Reviewer: Not all readers will know what ESM is. Maybe:

```suggestion
## Import statements

Astro uses ESM, the same [`import`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import#syntax) and [`export`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/export) syntax supported in the browser.
```

### JavaScript

```js
import { getUser } from './user.js';
```

> JavaScript can be imported using normal ESM `import` & `export` syntax. This works as expected, based on default Node.js and browser behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JavaScript can be imported using normal ESM `import` & `export` syntax.
```

I'm not sure we gain anything by the second sentence. I also think "default Node.js" behavior can be confusing, as Node doesn't use ESM by default.

**Astro does not support JSX in `.js`/`.ts` files.** JSX will only be handled inside of files that end with the `.jsx` and `.tsx` file extensions.
:::

### NPM Packages

```astro
---
import { Icon } from 'astro-icon';
---
```
If you've installed an NPM package, you can import it in Astro. Even if a package was published using a legacy format, Astro will convert the package to ESM so that `import` statements work.

:::warning

> Some packages rely on a browser environment. Astro components runs on the server, so importing these packages in the frontmatter may lead to errors.

Author: Love this! Just checking, do they "lead to errors" or do they just.... "silently not work"? Not do what you expect them to.

Author: Perfect, made an issue for a troubleshooting guide entry!

Adding **alt text** to `<img>` tags is encouraged for accessibility! Don't forget to add an `alt="a helpful description"` attribute to your image elements. You can just leave the attribute empty if the image is purely decorative.
:::

## `Astro.glob()`

> [`Astro.glob()`](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroglob) is a way to load many local files into your static site setup.
> 
> `.glob()` only takes one parameter: a relative glob pattern of which local files you'd like to import. It’s asynchronous, and returns an array of the exports from matching files.
> 
> ```astro title="src/components/my-component.astro"
> ---
> // returns an array of posts that live at ./src/pages/post/*.md
> const posts = await Astro.glob('../pages/post/*.md'); 
> ---
> <!-- Returns an <article> for 5 blog posts -->
> <div>
> {posts.slice(0, 4).map((post) => (
>   <article>
>     <h1>{post.frontmatter.title}</h1>
>     <p>{post.frontmatter.description}</p>
>     <a href={post.frontmatter.url}>Read more</a>
>   </article>
> ))}
> </div>
> ```
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`Astro.glob()`](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroglob) is a way to load many local files into your static site setup.

`Astro.glob()` only takes one parameter: a relative glob pattern matching the local files you'd like to import. It’s asynchronous, and returns an array of each matching file's exports.

```astro title="src/components/my-component.astro"
---
// imports all files that end with `.md` in `./src/pages/post/`
const posts = await Astro.glob('../pages/post/*.md'); 
---
<!-- Renders an <article> for the first 5 blog posts -->
<div>
{posts.slice(0, 4).map((post) => (
  <article>
    <h1>{post.frontmatter.title}</h1>
    <p>{post.frontmatter.description}</p>
    <a href={post.frontmatter.url}>Read more</a>
  </article>
))}
</div>
```

### Glob Patterns

A glob pattern is a file path that supports special placeholder characters. This lets it reference multiple files. For example,

`./pages/**/*.{md,mdx}` starts within the pages subdirectory of the current directory (`./pages`), looks through all of its subdirectories (`/**`), and checks for any filename (`/*`) that ends in either `.md` or `.mdx` (`.{md,mdx}`). 

[Read more about the glob pattern syntax](https://github.com/mrmlnc/fast-glob#pattern-syntax).
```

Adding **alt text** to `<img>` tags is encouraged for accessibility! Don't forget to add an `alt="a helpful description"` attribute to your image elements. You can just leave the attribute empty if the image is purely decorative.
:::

## `Astro.glob()`

[`Astro.glob()`](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroglob) is a way to import many files at once.

> `Astro.glob()` only takes one parameter: a relative [glob pattern](/#globpatterns) matching the local files you'd like to import. It’s asynchronous, and returns an array of each matching file's exports.

Author: ```suggestion
`Astro.glob()` only takes one parameter: a relative [glob pattern](/en/guides/imports/#globpatterns) matching the local files you'd like to import. It’s asynchronous, and returns an array of each matching file's exports.
```

```astro title="src/components/my-component.astro"
---
// imports all files that end with `.md` in `./src/pages/post/`
const posts = await Astro.glob('../pages/post/*.md'); 
---
<!-- Renders an <article> for the first 5 blog posts -->
<div>
{posts.slice(0, 4).map((post) => (
  <article>
    <h1>{post.frontmatter.title}</h1>
    <p>{post.frontmatter.description}</p>
    <a href={post.frontmatter.url}>Read more</a>
  </article>
))}
</div>
```

### Glob Patterns

A glob pattern is a file path that supports special wildcard characters. This lets it reference multiple files. For example,

> `pages/**/*.{md,mdx}` starts within the pages subdirectory, looks through all of its subdirectories (`/**`), and matches any filename (`/*`) that ends in either `.md` or `.mdx` (`.{md,mdx}`). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`./pages/**/*.{md,mdx}` starts within the pages subdirectory, looks through all of its subdirectories (`/**`), and matches any filename (`/*`) that ends in either `.md` or `.mdx` (`.{md,mdx}`).

Glob patterns must begin with either `./` (to start in the current directory) or `/` (to start at the root of the project).
 
```
My mistake - Globs have to start with either `/` or `./`

Author: I'm not sold on the "for example" usage here.

I think either "For example, ... " starting the sentnce in the same line. It would be one thing if the next thing were a full code snippet, but it's not, it's just a sentence.

Author: no objections to the text, though!

Adding **alt text** to `<img>` tags is encouraged for accessibility! Don't forget to add an `alt="a helpful description"` attribute to your image elements. You can just leave the attribute empty if the image is purely decorative.
:::

## `Astro.glob()`

[`Astro.glob()`](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroglob) is a way to import many files at once.

`Astro.glob()` only takes one parameter: a relative [glob pattern](/en/guides/imports/#globpatterns) matching the local files you'd like to import. It’s asynchronous, and returns an array of each matching file's exports.

```astro title="src/components/my-component.astro"
---
// imports all files that end with `.md` in `./src/pages/post/`
const posts = await Astro.glob('../pages/post/*.md'); 
---
<!-- Renders an <article> for the first 5 blog posts -->
<div>
{posts.slice(0, 4).map((post) => (
  <article>
    <h1>{post.frontmatter.title}</h1>
    <p>{post.frontmatter.description}</p>
    <a href={post.frontmatter.url}>Read more</a>
  </article>
))}
</div>
```

### Glob Patterns

> A glob pattern is a file path that supports special wildcard characters. This lets it reference multiple files. For example,
> 
> `./pages/**/*.{md,mdx}` starts within the pages subdirectory, looks through all of its subdirectories (`/**`), and matches any filename (`/*`) that ends in either `.md` or `.mdx` (`.{md,mdx}`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A glob pattern is a file path that supports special wildcard characters. This lets it reference multiple files.

For example, the glob pattern `./pages/**/*.{md,mdx}` starts within the pages subdirectory, looks through all of its subdirectories (`/**`), and matches any filename (`/*`) that ends in either `.md` or `.mdx` (`.{md,mdx}`).
```

Author: Just a "how it sounds" thing, but it feels like the sentence "This lets it reference multiple files" is maybe too short?

"This is used to reference multiple files in your project at once." <-- something a bit beefier actually "feels" better? What do you think?

(The For example is now fine, though!)

Reviewer: I'm fine with that!

> Glob patterns must begin with either `./` (to start in the current directory) or `/` (to start at the root of the project).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Glob patterns must begin with either `./` (to start in the current directory), `../` (to start in the parent directory), or  `/` (to start at the root of the project).
```
Forgot about `../`

Adding **alt text** to `<img>` tags is encouraged for accessibility! Don't forget to add an `alt="a helpful description"` attribute to your image elements. You can just leave the attribute empty if the image is purely decorative.
:::

## `Astro.glob()`

[`Astro.glob()`](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroglob) is a way to import many files at once.

> `Astro.glob()` only takes one parameter: a relative [glob pattern](/en/guides/imports/#globpatterns) matching the local files you'd like to import. It’s asynchronous, and returns an array of each matching file's exports.

Author: ```suggestion
`Astro.glob()` only takes one parameter: a relative [glob pattern](/en/guides/imports/#glob-patterns) matching the local files you'd like to import. It’s asynchronous, and returns an array of each matching file's exports.
```

```astro title="src/components/my-component.astro"
---
// imports all files that end with `.md` in `./src/pages/post/`
const posts = await Astro.glob('../pages/post/*.md'); 
---
<!-- Renders an <article> for the first 5 blog posts -->
<div>
{posts.slice(0, 4).map((post) => (
  <article>
    <h1>{post.frontmatter.title}</h1>
    <p>{post.frontmatter.description}</p>
    <a href={post.frontmatter.url}>Read more</a>
  </article>
))}
</div>
```

### Glob Patterns

A glob pattern is a file path that supports special wildcard characters. This is used to reference multiple files in your project at once.

For example, the glob pattern `./pages/**/*.{md,mdx}` starts within the pages subdirectory, looks through all of its subdirectories (`/**`), and matches any filename (`/*`) that ends in either `.md` or `.mdx` (`.{md,mdx}`).

> Glob patterns must begin with either `./` (to start in the current directory), `../` (to start in the parent directory), or  `/` (to start at the root of the project).

Author: ```suggestion
#### Glob Patterns in Astro

To use with `Astro.glob()`, the glob pattern must be a string literal and cannot contain any variables. See [the troubleshooting guide](/en/guides/troubleshooting/#astroglob---no-matches-found) for a workaround.

Additionally, glob patterns must begin with one of the following:
- `./` (to start in the current directory)
- `../` (to start in the parent directory)
- `/` (to start at the root of the project)
```
Committing this, but totally waiting on your edits!

Adding **alt text** to `<img>` tags is encouraged for accessibility! Don't forget to add an `alt="a helpful description"` attribute to your image elements. You can just leave the attribute empty if the image is purely decorative.
:::

## `Astro.glob()`

[`Astro.glob()`](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroglob) is a way to import many files at once.

`Astro.glob()` only takes one parameter: a relative [glob pattern](/en/guides/imports/#globpatterns) matching the local files you'd like to import. It’s asynchronous, and returns an array of each matching file's exports.

```astro title="src/components/my-component.astro"
---
// imports all files that end with `.md` in `./src/pages/post/`
const posts = await Astro.glob('../pages/post/*.md'); 
---
<!-- Renders an <article> for the first 5 blog posts -->
<div>
{posts.slice(0, 4).map((post) => (
  <article>
    <h1>{post.frontmatter.title}</h1>
    <p>{post.frontmatter.description}</p>
    <a href={post.frontmatter.url}>Read more</a>
  </article>
))}
</div>
```

> 

Reviewer: For `Astro.glob()` to work, the glob pattern must be a string literal. It can't contain any variables. See [the troubleshooting guide](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/troubleshooting/#supported-values) for a workaround.

### Glob Patterns

A glob pattern is a file path that supports special wildcard characters. This lets it reference multiple files. For example,

`./pages/**/*.{md,mdx}` starts within the pages subdirectory, looks through all of its subdirectories (`/**`), and matches any filename (`/*`) that ends in either `.md` or `.mdx` (`.{md,mdx}`).

Glob patterns must begin with either `./` (to start in the current directory), `../` (to start in the parent directory), or  `/` (to start at the root of the project).
 

[Read more about the glob pattern syntax](https://github.com/mrmlnc/fast-glob#pattern-syntax).

> ## Vite `import.meta.glob()`
> 
> You can also use `import.meta.glob()` itself in your Astro project. 
> 
> You may want to do this when:
> - **You need this feature in a file that isn't `.astro`, like an API route.** `Astro.glob()` is only available in `.astro` files, while `import.meta.glob()` is available anywhere in the project.
> - **You don't want to load each file immediately.** `import.meta.glob()` can return functions that import the file content, rather than returning the content itself.
> - **You want access to each file's path.** `import.meta.glob()` returns a map of a file's path to its content, while `Astro.glob()` returns a list of content.
> - **You want to pass multiple patterns;** for example, you want to add a "negative pattern" that filters out certain files. `import.meta.glob()` can optionally take an array of glob strings, rather than a single string.
> 
> Read more in the [Vite documentation](https://vitejs.dev/guide/features.html#glob-import).
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
